In the first lesson, we saw how stream processing works at a high level.
We then reviewed one of those popular streaming data stores
today Apache Kafka and its ecosystem.
With a strong understanding of streaming data stores we are now
going to shift our focus to stream processing applications.
In this section, you'll learn strategies,
design patterns and concepts around time.
Once you've worked this lesson,
you'll be ready for the following lessons we'll go hands-on and apply this new knowledge.
As you've already seen,
Kafka is a highly flexible message queue with
a large ecosystem and a rich set of functionality.
However, so far, we've really just moved data from
point A to point B. Kafka's exactly once
guarantees an excellent scalability are great for sending
these messages but we haven't used Kafka to its full extent.
We will truly see the benefits of these features by performing calculations in real-time.
In other words, by processing these data streams as events actually occur.
Building stream processing applications sounds simple when you think about it,
just in destined data from one or more topics and do some calculations.
Unfortunately, the reality isn't actually quite so simple.
How does time impact what data we're interested in?
What data do we store in memory?
Will it be able to hold state in memory given throughput of replication?
What if we want to join data from
multiple streams but we haven't seen the data from one stream yet?
How do we deal with that?